msresp1d — Create fiber response spectra from flat field and sky spectra
========================================================================

**Package: kpnocoude**

.. raw:: html

  <BODY>
  <TABLE WIDTH="100%" BORDER=0><TR>
  <TD ALIGN=LEFT><FONT SIZE=4>
  <B>msresp1d (Feb92)</B></FONT></TD>
  <TD ALIGN=CENTER><FONT SIZE=4>
  <B>noao.imred.specred</B>
  </FONT></TD>
  <TD ALIGN=RIGHT><FONT SIZE=4>
  <B>msresp1d (Feb92)</B></FONT></TD>
  </TR></TABLE><P>
  <TITLE>msresp1d</TITLE>
  <UL>
  </UL>
  <H2><A NAME="s_name">NAME</A></H2>
  <! BeginSection: 'NAME'>
  <UL>
  msresp1d -- Create 1D aperture response from flat and throughput data
  </UL>
  <! EndSection:   'NAME'>
  <H2><A NAME="s_usage">USAGE</A></H2>
  <! BeginSection: 'USAGE'>
  <UL>
  msresp1d flat throughput apreference response
  </UL>
  <! EndSection:   'USAGE'>
  <H2><A NAME="s_parameters">PARAMETERS</A></H2>
  <! BeginSection: 'PARAMETERS'>
  <UL>
  <DL>
  <DT><B><A NAME="l_flat">flat</A></B></DT>
  <! Sec='PARAMETERS' Level=0 Label='flat' Line='flat'>
  <DD>Flat field image to extract and normalize to create a one dimensional
  aperture response image.  If no flat field is specified then a throughput
  image or file must be specified and only a throughput correction will be
  created.  Note that the two dimensional unextracted image is specified.
  If an extracted image of the same name with the "<TT>.ms</TT>" extension is present
  it is used without reextraction though the unextracted image must also
  be present.
  </DD>
  </DL>
  <DL>
  <DT><B><A NAME="l_throughput">throughput</A></B></DT>
  <! Sec='PARAMETERS' Level=0 Label='throughput' Line='throughput'>
  <DD>Throughput file or image.  If an image is specified, typically a blank sky
  observation, the total flux through each aperture is used to correct for
  the aperture throughput.  If a file consisting of lines with the aperture
  number and relative throughput is specified then the aperture throughput
  will be generated by those values.  If neither is specified but a flat
  field image is given the flat field is used to compute the throughput.
  Note that the image is a two dimensional unextracted image.  If an
  extracted image of the same name with the "<TT>.ms</TT>" extension is present
  it is used without reextraction though the unextracted image must also
  be present.
  </DD>
  </DL>
  <DL>
  <DT><B><A NAME="l_apreference">apreference</A></B></DT>
  <! Sec='PARAMETERS' Level=0 Label='apreference' Line='apreference'>
  <DD>Aperture reference spectrum.  If not specified the apertures are defined
  using the flat field or throughput images.  If only a throughput file
  is used then an aperture reference spectrum must be specified to define
  the apertures and dimensions of the final response image.
  </DD>
  </DL>
  <DL>
  <DT><B><A NAME="l_response">response</A></B></DT>
  <! Sec='PARAMETERS' Level=0 Label='response' Line='response'>
  <DD>Response spectrum to be created.
  </DD>
  </DL>
  <P>
  <DL>
  <DT><B><A NAME="l_recenter">recenter = no</A></B></DT>
  <! Sec='PARAMETERS' Level=0 Label='recenter' Line='recenter = no'>
  <DD>Recenter throughput image apertures?
  </DD>
  </DL>
  <DL>
  <DT><B><A NAME="l_edit">edit = yes</A></B></DT>
  <! Sec='PARAMETERS' Level=0 Label='edit' Line='edit = yes'>
  <DD>Edit and review apertures?
  </DD>
  </DL>
  <DL>
  <DT><B><A NAME="l_trace">trace = no</A></B></DT>
  <! Sec='PARAMETERS' Level=0 Label='trace' Line='trace = no'>
  <DD>Trace spectra?
  </DD>
  </DL>
  <DL>
  <DT><B><A NAME="l_clean">clean = no</A></B></DT>
  <! Sec='PARAMETERS' Level=0 Label='clean' Line='clean = no'>
  <DD>Detect and replace bad pixels?
  </DD>
  </DL>
  <DL>
  <DT><B><A NAME="l_fitflat">fitflat = yes</A></B></DT>
  <! Sec='PARAMETERS' Level=0 Label='fitflat' Line='fitflat = yes'>
  <DD>Fit and ratio flat field spectrum?
  </DD>
  </DL>
  <DL>
  <DT><B><A NAME="l_interactive">interactive = yes</A></B></DT>
  <! Sec='PARAMETERS' Level=0 Label='interactive' Line='interactive = yes'>
  <DD>Interactive flat field fit?
  </DD>
  </DL>
  <DL>
  <DT><B><A NAME="l_function">function = "<TT>spline3</TT>", order = 20</A></B></DT>
  <! Sec='PARAMETERS' Level=0 Label='function' Line='function = "spline3", order = 20'>
  <DD>Flat field fitting function and order.  The functions may be one of
  "<TT>chebyshev</TT>", "<TT>legendre</TT>", "<TT>spline1</TT>" (linear spline), or "<TT>spline3</TT>" (cubic spline).
  The order is either the number of polynomial terms or the number of spline
  pieces.
  </DD>
  </DL>
  </UL>
  <! EndSection:   'PARAMETERS'>
  <H2><A NAME="s_other_parameters">OTHER PARAMETERS</A></H2>
  <! BeginSection: 'OTHER PARAMETERS'>
  <UL>
  The package parameters control logging of the operations performed and
  the verbose option allows printing of some progress information.  The
  graphics use the device defined by the STDGRAPH variable and cursor
  input is with the parameter <I>cl.gcur</I>.
  <P>
  Aperture extraction is done using the task <B>apall</B> and any parameters
  not overridden by task parameters will be used; for example the detector
  noise parameters.
  </UL>
  <! EndSection:   'OTHER PARAMETERS'>
  <H2><A NAME="s_description">DESCRIPTION</A></H2>
  <! BeginSection: 'DESCRIPTION'>
  <UL>
  For multiaperture or multifiber spectra a throughput aperture correction 
  must be applied to extracted object spectra.  Also it is often better to
  divide by a one dimensional flat field than a two dimensional one.  This
  is valid provided the pixels sampled by the flat field and object are
  essentially the same.  The advantages are that interspectrum pixels where
  there is little signal are not used and small shifts (fractions of a pixel)
  can be tolerated.  The task <B>msresp1d</B> creates a multiaperture image
  containing one dimensional flat field and throughput corrections which
  can be directly divided into extracted object spectra.
  <P>
  If a one dimensional flat field is to be determined the flat field spectra
  are extracted unless an extracted image having the specified flat field
  name with the "<TT>.ms</TT>" extension is present.  If the <I>fitflat</I> parameter
  is set then all the spectra are averaged and a smooth function is fit to
  this composite flat field spectrum.  The smooth fit is divided into the
  individual flat field spectra.  This removes the mean flat field spectrum
  shape, thus avoiding introducing the inverse of the flat field spectrum
  into the object spectra and changing the approximate count levels in the
  object.  This procedure is recommended.  Note that it does not matter if
  the individual fibers have differing spectral shapes (such as might happen
  with a combination of fibers with differing spectral throughput) because
  only a common function is used.  The fitting is done using the <B>fit1d</B>
  task based on the <B>icfit</B> function fitting routines.  When the
  <I>interactive</I> flag is set the fitting may be done interactively
  allowing iteration on the fitting function and other fitting parameters.
  Note that the function fit should follow the overall shape using a fairly
  high order.
  <P>
  If no throughput image or file is specified the relative strengths
  of the flat field spectra define a throughput correction.  If a
  separate throughput image or file is given then the individual
  flat field spectra are normalized to unity and then scaled by the
  throughput determined from the image or file.
  <P>
  If a throughput image, such as a blank sky observation, is specified it is
  extracted if needed.  The extracted sky spectra are divided by the flat
  field which is not yet corrected for throughput variations.  The total flux
  through each aperture is then found to define the relative throughputs of
  the apertures.  If a flat field was also specified the throughput values
  are multiplied into the normalized flat field otherwise the response image
  will consist of constant spectra with the relative throughputs derived from
  the image.
  <P>
  If a throughput file is specified the throughput values for each aperture
  are defined from this file.  The file consists of lines with two columns,
  the aperture number and the relative throughput.  All apertures should
  be represented.  If a flat field was also specified the throughput values
  are multiplied into the normalized flat field.  If no flat field
  is given then the aperture reference image must be specified and it
  will be extracted, if necessary, to provide the template for the response
  image having constant values for each aperture spectrum.
  <P>
  It is an error unless one or both of the flat field and throughput
  are specified.
  <P>
  The last stage is to normalize of the response spectra over
  all apertures to a global unit mean.  Because of this step the throughput
  values derived from the flat field, throughput image, or throughput
  file need only be relative.  Log information is recorded and printed
  which includes the final relative throughputs values.
  <P>
  Aperture extraction is done using the task <B>apall</B> and any parameters
  not overridden by task parameters will be used; for example the detector
  noise parameters.  Task parmeters control whether recentering,
  aperture review, and tracing are done.  If no aperture reference is
  specified the apertures will be defined as the task is run.
  The aperture reference, if defined, is often the same as the flat field.
  </UL>
  <! EndSection:   'DESCRIPTION'>
  <H2><A NAME="s_examples">EXAMPLES</A></H2>
  <! BeginSection: 'EXAMPLES'>
  <UL>
  1.  To make a flat field response and apply it to an extracted object:
  <P>
  <PRE>
      ms&gt; msred.verbose=yes
      ms&gt; msresp1d flat005 "" "" resp005.ms
      Extract flat field flat005
      Searching aperture database ...
      Sep  7 14:36: DATABASE  - 44 apertures read for flat005.
      Resize apertures for flat005?  (yes): n
      Edit apertures for flat005?  (yes): n
      Extract aperture spectra for flat005?  (yes): 
      Review extracted spectra from flat005?  (yes): n
      Extracting apertures ...
      Sep  7 14:37: EXTRACT - Aperture 1 from flat005 --&gt; flat005.ms
      Sep  7 14:37: EXTRACT - Aperture 2 from flat005 --&gt; flat005.ms
      Sep  7 14:37: EXTRACT - Aperture 3 from flat005 --&gt; flat005.ms
      Sep  7 14:37: EXTRACT - Aperture 4 from flat005 --&gt; flat005.ms
      Sep  7 14:37: EXTRACT - Aperture 5 from flat005 --&gt; flat005.ms
      &lt;etc&gt;
      Fit and ratio flat field flat005
      &lt;Interactive fitting of average extracted flat field&gt;
      Create the normalized response resp005.ms
      Sep  7 14:38 BSCALE: image = resp005.ms
        bzero=0.  bscale=1.0  mean=1.0  median=1.02386  mode=1.07141
      Average fiber response:
        1  0.8049859
        2  0.6428247
        3  0.9014022
        4  0.7955039
        5  0.9898984
        &lt;etc&gt;
      ms&gt; imarith obj006.ms / resp005.ms obj006.ms
  </PRE>
  <P>
  Of course the extracted object spectra must be the same in terms of apertures,
  wavelength coverage, etc.
  <P>
  2.  To make only a throughput correction:
  <P>
  <PRE>
      ms&gt; msresp1d "" obj005 "" resp005
  </PRE>
  </UL>
  <! EndSection:   'EXAMPLES'>
  <H2><A NAME="s_see_also">SEE ALSO</A></H2>
  <! BeginSection: 'SEE ALSO'>
  <UL>
  icfit, fit1d, apflatten, apnormalize, dofibers
  </UL>
  <! EndSection:    'SEE ALSO'>
  
  <! Contents: 'NAME' 'USAGE' 'PARAMETERS' 'OTHER PARAMETERS' 'DESCRIPTION' 'EXAMPLES' 'SEE ALSO'  >
  
  </BODY>
  </HTML>